Computational Methods Assignment 7 Folder - Markov Chain Monte Carlo Optimisation/Maximisation

Contents:

rosen.cpp        - Program which answers question 1 by mapping the Rosenbrock function 
	           using MCMC methods and produces data files of the function evaluations.
compare.cpp      - Program which answers question 2 by comparing numbers of function evaluations 
		   and accepted points between the case of fixing the proposal distribution
		   after burn-in period and case of allowing it to vary after burn-in
multivariate.cpp - Program which attempts to answer question 3 by using the feature in
		   Markov Chain class which uses a Multivariate Gaussian distribution opposed
		   to a product of single independent Gaussians. Outputs files for plotting.
mcmc.h           - Class declaration for the MarkovChain class used to explore and optimise
mcmc.cpp	 - Contains class member functions for the MarkovChain class
rand.h           - Random number generator from assignment 3 for uniform deviate generation
Makefile         - Compiles the rosen.cpp, compare.cpp, and multivariate.cpp programs
report7.pdf      - Report describing methods and discussing displayed results
marko.p          - Contains instructions for gnuplot to view the Marko chain and burn-in data
		   for answers to question 1 and 3
%.txt            - Contains the output to the terminal of the three main files rosen.cpp, 
		   compare.cpp, and multivariate.cpp 


Instructions for assign7 folder for Computational Methods (TSM CDT):

COMPILING:

Using the Makefile provided, type 'make' into the terminal. This will compile
'rosen.cpp', 'compare.cpp' and 'multivariate.cpp' providing executables 'rosen.x',
'compare.x' and 'multivariate.x'.

To run these, enter './rosen.x' into the terminal, and wait for outputted results,
then enter './compare.x' into the terminal, and wait for the outputted results,
then enter '/multivariate.x' into the terminal and wait for the outputted results.

The outputs are included in hard copy in the .txt files for easier access.
Additionally, '.dat' files will be produced containing the Markov Chain and burn-in
data for 'rosen.x' and 'multivariate.x'.

OBTAINING PNG FILES FROM REPORT:
To plot and obtain the graphs from  gnuplot (assuming gnuplot is installed), type 'gnuplot marko.p'
into the terminal. This will produce individual '.png' files which are included in the report PDF.


- Martik Aghajanian, Cohort 8.

